# Climate and Urban Development
[Back to Index](https://github.com/windows10010/tpoExtractor/blob/master/README.md)

For more than a hundred years, it has been known that cities are generally warmer than surrounding rural areas. ●This region of city warmth, known as the urban heat island, can influence the concentration of air pollution. ●However, before we look at its influence, let’s see how the heat island actually forms.The urban heat island is due to industrial and urban development. ●In rural areas, a large part of the incoming solar energy is used in evaporating water from vegetation and soil. ●In cities, where less vegetation and exposed soil exist, the majority of the Sun’s energy is absorbed by urban structures and asphalt. ●Hence, during warm daylight hours, less evaporative cooling in cities allows surface temperatures to rise higher than in rural areas. ●The cause of the urban heat island is quite . ●Depending on the location, time of year, and time of day, any or all of the following differences between cities and their surroundings can be important: albedo, surface roughness, emissions of heat, emissions of moisture, and emissions of particles that affect net radiation and the growth of cloud droplets.At night, the solar energyis slowly released into the city air. ●Additional city heat is given off at nightby vehicles and factories, as well as by industrial and domestic heating and cooling units. ●The release of heat energy is by the tall vertical city walls that do not allow infrared radiation to escape as readily as does the relatively level surface of the surrounding countryside. ●The slow release of heat tends to keep nighttime city temperatures higher than those of the faster-cooling rural areas. ●Overall, the heat island is strongestat night when compensating sunlight is absent;during the winter, when nights are longer and there is more heat generated in the city; andwhen the region is dominated by a high-pressure area with light winds, clear skies, and less humid air. ●Over time, increasing urban heat islands affect climatological temperature records, producing artificial warming in climatic records taken in cities. ●This warming, therefore, must be accounted for in interpreting climate change over the past century.The constant outpouring of pollutants into the environment may influence the climate of the city. ●Certain particles reflect solar radiation, thereby reducing the sunlight that reaches the surface. ●Some particles serve as nuclei upon which water and ice form. ●Water vapor condenses onto these particles when the relative humidity is as low as 70 percent, forming haze that greatly reduces visibility. ●Moreover, the added nuclei increase the frequency of city fog.●This piling up of air over the city then slowly rises, much like does when its tube is squeezed. ●At the same time, city heat warms the surface air, making it more unstable, which enhances risings air motions, which, in turn, aids in forming clouds and thunderstorms. ●This process helps explain why tend to be more frequent over cities.On clear still nights when the heat island is , a small thermal low-pressure area forms over the city. ●Sometimes a light breeze—called a country breeze—blows from the countryside into the city. ●If there are major industrial areas along the outskirts, pollutants are carried into the heat of town, where they tend to concentrate. ●Such an event is especially probable if vertical mixing and dispersion of pollutants are inhibited. ●Pollutants from urban areas may even affect the weather downwind from them.