# get a new campus job
[Back to Index](https://github.com/windows10010/tpoExtractor/blob/master/README.md)

Narrator:Listen to a conversation between a student and a university employee at the campus employment office.Employee:Hi, can I help you?Student:I hope so. My name's Mark Wickman. I'm...Employee:Don't I remember you from last year?You worked in, uh, where was it? The art library?Student:Yeah, you're good.That was me, and I really enjoyed the work.Employee:Right, yeah. Your supervisor gave us some really great feedback at the end of the year.Oh, "he's so organized, always on time, helpful..."Student:Really, well.. I'm glad.It was a good job.Employee:Well, we usually try to match student's jobs with their academic interests.Student:Yeah, um, I'm not exactly sure what career I'm headed for.But librarian is a possibility.It was a great experience to learn how it works and meet some people working in the field.But for this year, well, that's what I wanted to ask about.Employee:Oh, how come you waited so long to come in?You know how fast campus jobs fill up.If you'd come in earlier, you could probably have gotten the library job again.I mean, since you have the experience from last year, you don't need the training and all.But it's been filled now.Student:Yeah, I know. But I plan to get a job working at a restaurant off campus this year.I really need to make more money than I did last year, and working as a waiter, there's always the tips.But I've tried a ton of places and I haven't found anything.I know it's really late, but, well, um, I was wondering if maybe there was some job that hadn't been taken or maybe someone started a job, and you know, had to drop it or something.Employee:Well, I doubt you'll find anything.Student:Well, could you, could you possibly check?I know it's a long shot, but my friend Susanne, she takes photography classes in Harrison Hall and...um...she sort of thought there might be an opening in the janitorial staff.Employee:Um, why does your friend, the photography student, think she has information about a janitorial staff opening?I'm pretty sure those jobs are filled.In fact, I remember taking lots of applications for them, but let me double check it online.Student:She said the whole studio arts building and especially the photo lab have been kind of, uh, sort of messy lately,I mean, she says there's...uh...chemicals and stuff left out, and you know, it's like no one's been cleaning up.Oh, but that could just be, you know, students using the lab after hours or something, like after it's been cleaned.Employee:Hmm, hang on. There's a...There's...um...an asterisk gap next to one of the job numbers here.There's a note. Let's see... Ha, your friend's right.Seems like one of the student janitors quit a couple of weeks ago for some reason.Well, whatever, it looks like this is your lucky day.Student:Wow! That is so great.So who's the contact person?Employee:Check with the janitorial office.Student:Fine. Thanks so much. 