# Breathing During Sleep
[Back to Index](https://github.com/windows10010/tpoExtractor/blog/master/README.md)

{{Of all the physiological differences in human sleep compared with wakefulness that have been discovered in the last decade, changes in respiratory control are most dramatic. ●Not only are there differences in the level of the functioning of respiratory systems, there are even changes in how they function. ●Movements of the rib cage for breathing are reduced during sleep,
making the contractions of the diaphragm more important.●{Yet because of the physics of lying down, the stomach applies weight against the diaphragm and makes it more difficult for the 
diaphragm to do its job.●{However, there are many other changes that affect respiration when asleep.{{{During wakefulness, breathing is controlled by two interacting systems.●{The first is an automatic, metabolic system whose control is centered in the brain stem. ●
It subconsciously adjusts breathing rate and depth in order to regulate the levels of carbon dioxideand oxygen, and the acid-base ratio in the blood. ●The second system is the voluntary,
behavioral system. ●Its control center is based in the forebrain, and it regulates breathing for use in speech, singing, sighing, and so on. ●It is capable of ignoring or overriding the automatic,
metabolic system and produces an irregular pattern of breathing.{During NREMbreathing becomes deeper and more regular, but there is also a decrease in the breathing rate, resulting in less air being exchanged overall. ●This occurs because during NREM sleep the automatic, metabolic system has {control over breathing and the body uses less oxygen and produces less carbon dioxide. ●Also, during sleep the automatic metabolic system is less responsive to carbon dioxide levels and oxygen levels in the blood. ●Two things result from these changes in breathing control that occur during sleep. ●First, there may be a brief cessation or reduction of breathing when falling asleep as the sleeper waxes and wanes between sleep and wakefulness and their differing control mechanisms. ●Second, once sleep is fully obtained, there is an increase of carbon dioxide and a decrease of oxygen in the blood that persists during NREM.{But that is not all that changes. ●During all phases of sleep, several changes in the air passages have been observed. ●It takes twice as much effort to breathe during sleep because of greater resistance to airflow in the airways and changes in the efficiency of the muscles used for breathing. ●Some of the muscles that help keep the upper airway open when breathing tend to become more relaxed during sleep, especially during REM. ●Without this muscular action, {—the narrow passages tend to collapse. ●Also there is a regular cycle of change in resistance between the two sides of the nose. ●If something blocks the "good" side, such as congestion from allergies or a cold, then resistance increases dramatically. ●Coupled with these factors is the loss of the complex interactions among the muscles that can change the route of airflow from nose to mouth.{{Other respiratory regulating mechanisms apparently cease functioning during sleep. ●For example, during wakefulness there is an immediate, automatic, adaptive increase in breathing effort when inhaling is made more difficult. ●This reflexive adjustment is totally absent during NREM sleep. ●Only after several inadequate breaths under such conditions, resulting in the {elevation of carbon dioxide and reduction of oxygen in the blood, is breathing effort adjusted. ●Finally, the coughing reflex in reaction to irritants in the airway produces not a cough during sleep but a cessation of breathing. ●If the irritation is severe enough, a sleeping person will arouse, clear the airway, then {breathing and likely return to sleep.{Additional breathing changes occur during REM sleep that are even more dramatic than the changes that occur during NREM. ●{●In addition, breathing during REM depends much more on the action of the diaphragm and much less on rib cage action.