# Characteristics of Roman Pottery
[Back to Index](https://github.com/windows10010/tpoExtractor/blog/master/README.md)

{{The pottery of ancient Romans is remarkable in several ways. ●The high quality of Roman pottery is very easy to appreciate when handling actual pieces of tableware or indeed kitchenware and amphorae. ●However, it is impossible to do justice to Roman wares on the page, even when words can be backed up by photographs and drawing. ●Most Roman pottery is light and smooth to touch and very tough, although, like all pottery, it shatters if dropped on a hard surface. ●It is generally made with carefully selected and purified clay, worked to thin-walled and standardized shapes on a fast wheel and fired in a kilncapable of ensuring a consistent finish. ●With handmade pottery, inevitably there are slight differences between individual vessels of the same design and occasional minor blemishes. ●But what strikes the eye and the touch most immediately and most powerfully with Roman pottery is its consistent high quality.{This is not just an aesthetic consideration but also a practical one. ●These vessels are solid, they are pleasant and easy to handle, and, with their hard and sometimes glossysurfaces, they hold liquids well and are easy to wash. ●Furthermore, their regular and standardized shapes would have made them simple to stack and store. ●When people today are shown a very ordinary Roman pot and, in particular, are allowed to handle it, they often comment on how modern it looks and feels, and they need to be convinced of its true age.{As impressive as the quality of Roman pottery is its sheer massive quantity. ●When considering quantities, we would ideally like to have some estimates for overall production from particular sites of pottery manufacture and for overall consumption at specific settlements. ●Unfortunately, it is in the nature of the archaeological evidence, which is almost invariable only a sample of what once existed, that such figures will always be elusive. ●However, no one who has ever worked in the field would question the abundance of Roman pottery, particularly in the Mediterranean region. ●This abundance is notable in Roman settlementswhere the labor that archaeologists have to put into the washing and sorting of potsherdsconstitutes a high proportion of the total work during the initial phases of excavation.{{{{{Only rarely can we derive any “real” quantities from deposits of broken pots. ●{However, there is one exceptional dump, which does represent a very large part of the site’s total history of
consumption and for which an estimate of quantity has been produced. ●{On the left bank of the Tiber River in Rome, by one of the river ports of the ancient city, is a {hill some 50
meters high called Monte Testaccio.●{It is made up {of broken oil amphorae, mainly of the second and third centuries A.D. ●It has been estimated that Monte Testaccio contains the remains of 
some 53 million amphorae, in which around 6,000million liters of oil were imported into the city from overseas, imports into imperial Rome were supported by the full might of the state and were 
therefore quite exceptional----but the size of the operations at Monte Testaccio, and the productivity and complexity that lay behind them, nonetheless cannot fail to impress. ●This was a society 
with similarities to modern one----moving goods on a gigantic scale, manufacturing high-quality containers to do so, and occasionally, as here, even discarding them on delivery.        {Roman pottery was transported not only in large quantities but also over substantial distances. ●Many Roman pots, in {amphorae and the fine wares designed for use at tables, could travel hundreds of miles----all over the Mediterranean and also further afield. ●But {. ●What is more significant than any geographical spread is the access that different levels of society had to good-quality products. ●In all but the remotest regions of the empire, Roman pottery of a high standard is common at the sites of {villages and isolated farmsteads.