# Cetacean Intelligence
[Back to Index](https://github.com/windows10010/tpoExtractor/blob/master/README.md)

We often hear that whales, dolphins, and porpoises are as intelligent as humans maybe even more so. ●●There is no question that cetaceans are among the most intelligent of animals. ●Dolphins, killer whales, and pilot whales in captivity quickly learn tricks. ●The military has trained bottlenose dolphins to find bombs and missile heads and to work as underwater spies.This type of learning, however, is called conditioning.●The animal simply learns that when it performs a particular behavior, it gets a reward, usually a fish.●Many animals, including rats, birds, and even invertebrates, can be conditioned to perform tricks.●We certainly don't think of these animals as our mental rivals.●Unlike most other animals, however, dolphins quickly learn by observations and may spontaneously imitate human activities. ●One tame dolphin watched a diver cleaning an underwater viewing window, seized a feather in its beak, and began imitating the diver—complete with sound effects! ●Dolphins have also been seen imitating seals, turtles, and even water-skiers. Given the seeming intelligence of cetaceans, people are always to compare them with humans and other animals. ●Studies on discrimination and problem-solving skills in the bottlenose dolphin, for instance, have concluded that its intelligence lies "." ●Such comparisons are unfair. ●It is important to realize that intelligence is a very human concept and that we evaluate it in human terms. ●After all, not many people would consider themselves stupid because they couldn't locate and identify a fish by its echo. ●Why should we judge cetaceans by their ability to solve human problems?Both humans and cetaceans have large brains with an expanded and distinctively folded surface, the cortex. ●The cortex is the association center of the brain, where abilities such as memory and sensory perception are centered. ●Cetaceans have larger brains than ours, but the ratio of brain to body weight is higher in humans. ●Again, direct comparisons are misleading. ●In cetaceans it is mainly the portions of the brain associated with hearing and the processing of sound information that are expanded. ●The enlarged portions of our brain deal largely with vision and hand-eye coordination. ●Cetaceans and humans almost certainly perceive the world in very different ways. ●Their world is largely one of sounds, ours one of sights. Contrary to what is depicted in movies and on television, the notion of "talking" to dolphins is also misleading. ●Although they produce a rich repertoire of complex sounds, they lack vocal cords and their brains probably process sound differently from ours. ●Bottlenose dolphins have been trained to make sounds through the blowhole that sound something like human sounds, but this is a far cry from human speech. ●By the same token, humans cannot make whale sounds. ●We will probably never be able to carry on an unaided conversation with cetaceans. As in chimpanzees, captive bottlenose dolphins have been taught American Sign Language. ●These dolphins have learned to communicate with trainers who use sign language to ask simple questions. ●Dolphins answer back by pushing a "yes" or "no" paddle. ●They have even been known to give responses not taught by the trainers. ●Evidence also indicates that these dolphins can distinguish between commands that differ from each other only by their word order, a truly remarkable achievement. ●Nevertheless, dolphins do not seem to have a real language like ours. ●Unlike humans, dolphins probably cannot convey very complex messages. Observations of cetaceans in the wild have provided some on their learning abilities. ●Several bottlenose dolphins off western Australia, for instance, have been observed carrying large cone-shaped sponges over their beaks. ●They supposedly use the sponges for protection against stingrays and other on the bottom as they search for fish to eat. ●This is the first record of the use of tools among wild cetaceans. Instead of "intelligence," some people prefer to speak of "awareness." ●In any case, cetaceans probably have a very different awareness and perception of their environment than do humans. ●Maybe one day we will come to understand cetaceans on their terms instead of ours, and perhaps we will discover a mental sophistication rivaling our own. 