# Advice for Cafeteria
[Back to Index](https://github.com/windows10010/tpoExtractor/blog/master/README.md)

Listen to a conversation between a student and a cafeteria manager.Manager: Oh, hi, you're Amy, right?Student: Yes.Manager: I haven't seen you here for a while. Welcome back.Student: Thanks. Uh, you're right. I haven't been eating here regularly like I used to.Manager: Why not?Student: A couple of reasons.First of all, I have a class that ends during lunch time.So by the time I get here, there's hardly any food left.Manager: Really?Student: Yeah. And then I have a chemistry lab at night this semester.It's 2 hours every Tuesday and Thursday.You know that building is way across campus.So I just eat something in my dorm before I leave or skip dinner altogether.I come here afterward, but lab lets out at 7:30 and...By then the cafeteria is already closed.Manager: Oh, I'm really sorry.Well, what about getting something to go and eating it in class?Student: I can’t. Food isn't permitted anywhere near the laboratories.I wish you stayed open later.Manager: Have you complained formally?We've always had a suggestion box. And now, you can send us an e-mail.Student: As a matter of fact, I did fill out a suggestion card.I asked for longer hours and for better food choices, too.But that was like weeks ago.And nothing’s changed from what I can see.Manager: You know, I was just promoted to cafeteria manager, and one of the things I'm trying to do is pay more attention to students' concerns.There have been a lot of complaints similar to yours over the years.Student: Yeah. A lot of my friends complain about the cafeteria, but I figure nothing will ever be done.Manager: Well, some things can change.For instance, you mentioned you like better food choices.Is there anything in particular you like added to the menu?Student: Hmm, I guess it'd be nice to get hot cereal in the morning, and maybe a wider choice of soups and salads at lunch and dinner.And there should definitely be enough food to feed everyone whenever the cafeteria is open.Manager: Hmm hmm. ... But all good suggestions.Say, were you aware that the university has recently formed a food advisory committee?It includes myself, a nutritionist, the school chef, a food science professor and the person who oversees the cafeteria budget.Student: Do you want me to talk to the committee?Manager: I was thinking you might like to serve on the committee.If you are interested, I'll recommend you as the student representative.Student: Oh, I'm not so sure if I have enough spare time to get that involved.Manager: Ok, then why don't I let you know when and where our next meeting is?And we will put you on the agenda.You may also want to send me an e-mail with all of your suggestions.Now that I am in charge, I will make sure they get serious consideration.Student: I’d appreciate that. Thanks.