# Agriculture, Iron, and the Bantu Peoples
[Back to Index](https://github.com/windows10010/tpoExtractor/blob/master/README.md)

{{There is evidence of agriculture in Africa prior to 3000 B.C. ●It may have developed independently, but many scholars believe that the spread of agriculture and iron throughout Africa linked it to the major centers of the Near East and Mediterranean world. ●The drying up of what is now the Sahara desert had pushed many peoples to the south into sub-Sahara Africa. ●These peoples settled at first in scattered hunting-and-gathering bands, although in some places near lakes and rivers, people who fished, with a more secure food supply, lived in larger population concentrations. ●Agriculture seems to have reached these people from the Near East, since the first domesticated crops were millets and sorghums whose origins are not African but west Asian. ●Once the idea of planting {, Africans began to develop their own crops, such as certain varieties of rice, and they demonstrated a continued receptiveness to new imports. ●The proposed areas of the domestication of African crops lie in a band that extends from Ethiopia across southern Sudan to West Africa. ●Subsequently, other crops, such as bananas, were introduced from Southeast Asia.{{Livestock also came from outside Africa. ●Cattle were introduced from Asia, as probably were domestic sheep and goats. ●Horses were apparently introduced by the Hyksos invaders of Egyptand then spread across the Sudan to West Africa. ●Rock paintings in the Sahara indicate that horses and chariots were used to traverse the desert and that by 300-200 B.C., there were trade routes across the Sahara. ●Horses were adopted by peoples of the West African savannah, and later their powerful cavalry forces allowed them to carve out large empires. ●Finally, the camel was introduced around the first century A.D. ●This was an important innovation, because the camel’s abilities to thrive in harsh desert conditions and to carry large loads cheaply made it an effective and efficient means of transportation. ●The camel transformed the desert from a barrier into a still difficult, but more accessible, route of trade and communication.{Iron came from West Asia, although its routes of diffusion were somewhat different than those of agriculture. ●Most of Africa presents a curious case in which societies moved directly from a technology of stone to iron without passing through the intermediate stage of copper or bronze metallurgy, although some early copper-working sites have been found in West Africa. ●Knowledge of iron making penetrated into the forest and savannahs of West Africa at roughly the same time that iron making was reaching Europe. ●Evidence of iron making has been found in Nigeria, Ghana, and Mali.{This technological shift cause {changes in the complexity of African societies. ●Iron represented power. ●In West Africa the blacksmith who made tools and weapons had an important place in society, often with special religious powers and functions. ●Iron hoes, which made the land more productive, and iron weapons, which made the warrior more powerful, had symbolic meaning in a number of West Africa societies. ●Those who knew the secrets of making iron gained {and sometimes political power.{. ●Much of Africa moved right into the Iron Age, taking the basic technology and adapting it to local conditions and resources.{The diffusion of agriculture and later of iron was accompanied by a great movement of people who may have carried these innovations. ●These people probably originated in eastern Nigeria.
●{Their migration may have been set in motion by an increase in population caused by a movement of peoples {the desiccation, or drying up, of the Sahara.
●{They spoke a language, proto-Bantu, which is the parent tongue of a language of a large number of Bantu languages still spoken throughout sub-Sahara Africa.
●Why and how these people spread out into central and southern Africa remains a mystery, but archaeologists believe that their iron weapons allowed them to conquer their hunting-gathering opponents,
who still used stone implements. ●{Still, the process is uncertain, and peaceful migration—or simply rapid demographic growth—may have also caused the {.{