# Campus Housing For Summer
[Back to Index](https://github.com/windows10010/tpoExtractor/blob/master/README.md)

Narrator: Listen to a conversation between a student and an employee in the university housing office.Employee: Hi. Can I help you?Student: I hope so.I am taking a class this summer and I need to see about getting campus housing.Employee: Oh, sorry.I am afraid the deadline to apply for summer housing in the dormitories has already passed.I could help you look for something off campus.Student: Well, see, I only found out yesterday I need to take this course.It wasn't really my idea.I mean I was gonna take it in the fall.It is a course I need for my major in cognitive science, Professor Wilson was supposed to teach it but now...Employee: Oh, right. I heard he is taking a last-minute leave of absence next year.I hope everything is okay.Student: Oh yeah. He'll be in Botswana helping develop the new cognitive science program at our sister university there.Anyway I have to take the course this summer if I want to graduate on time.I’ve got a note from the dean approving the whole situation.Employee: Oh, well, in that case I guess we'd better make an exception for you.Only problem is most of the bedrooms are gone already.Was there any particular dorm you were interested in?Student: Well, I’m in Randolph Hall right now, but my roommate's graduating in May so I have signed up for a single in Murphy for the fall, room 206.I was hoping I might be able to just move in there now.Employee: Well, let's see what the computer says.Sorry, that room's scheduled for repainting and maintenance over the summer.So I can't give it to you.Student: I don't really care if it's repainted.I’ll be covering most of the walls with posters anyway.Couldn't I just take it as is?Employee: Sorry, no. It is actually a city ordinance.All rental rooms including dorm rooms have to be painted at least once every five years.Student: Oh, well, how about if I stay where I’m for the summer?I’m pretty sure they just painted it a couple years ago.Employee: Hang on, let me check.You said Randolph, right?Student: Room 122.Employee: Oops. Afraid not.The entire floor is taken.Student: Oh, well. Guess I’ll just have to move twice.Employee: One sec. I have got one more idea.Here we go. There is a room open in Murphy just down the hall from your new one.That way come fall, you'd only have to carry your things a few doors down.Student: Okay, works for me.Employee: Now, that room is a double.Right now you have got it to yourself but there's a chance someone else might sign up at the last minute, not likely.But you could end up with a roommate for the summer.Would that be okay?Student: Oh, sure. I can get along with anyone for a couple of months.Employee: Okay, then, I will get the forms printed up.They should be ready for you by tomorrow afternoon.You can stop by and sign them then.Student: Excellent, thanks.
 