# Extension For Paper
[Back to Index](https://github.com/windows10010/tpoExtractor/blog/master/README.md)

Listen to a conversation between a student and a professor.Professor: Oh, hi, Melanie, how are you doing?Student: I'm good. Thanks.I just have some questions about this paper for your class.Do you have a second to talk about it now?Professor: Oh, yes. No problem.I have about twenty minutes before my next class.Will that be enough time?Student: Yeah. I think so.Okay. So the thing is, you know, okay, I'm writing my paper on the history of jazz in New York City.Professor: All right.Well, that's a pretty broad subject.Student: Well, actually I'm focusing on a specific decade, the 50s and on...and I'm only doing it on a few specific artists.Professor: Oh, okay, because I was going to say that seemed a bit, uh, too ambitious for a ten-page paper.Student: Yeah, no, it's not the subject I'm having trouble with.Actually the paper is practically writing itself.I mean, I have got a lot to say and it's going pretty well.The thing is, I have this idea that might make it better and I was wondering if there's any way I could get an extension.I mean, I know it's due next week. Right?Professor: That's right, on Monday.But I don't understand.It sounds like you are doing so well.Why do you need more time?Student: Yeah. Well, I could write the paper as it is and turn it in on time and it would be fine.Professor: But?Student: But I was just talking to one of my friends whose family has lived in New York forever!And it turns out that her grandfather was actually there, in the period of jazz I'm writing about.I mean, he was a jazz musician and he actually, like personally, knew the artists I'm writing about.Professor: You are kidding!That's a coincidence.Student: Yeah, I know, it's cool, right?So anyway, that's why I was wondering if I could get an extension because I thought it would be really great if I could like interview him for my paper.Professor: Ah...Student: But I don't think I can meet with him until early next week.So...Professor: Ah, I see.Well. It would certainly add a new dimension to your paper, wouldn't it?Have you talked to this gentleman yet?Student: Uh, no, but I talked to my friend, just, you know, ran the idea past her and she said he would probably love to do it.But you know, he is busy until next week.Professor: Okay. Well, yeah, I think that in this case we can definitely extend your deadline until, that's say, Friday next week?Student: Okay. That would be great!Professor: But just to be fair, why don't you turn in an outline of your paper on the due date?Student: The outline?Oh, that's no problem.It's basically done except for the parts about the interview.Professor: Oh, yeah. The interview.Could you have the questions ready then too?The ones you are planning on asking.Student: Sure! Yeah, I can do that too.Professor: And then I'll expect the final draft next Friday.Student: Okay. Great. Thanks!Professor: Sure. I'm looking forward to reading it.