# Extinction Episodes of The Past
[Back to Index](https://github.com/windows10010/tpoExtractor/blob/master/README.md)

{It was not until the Cambrian period, beginning about 600 million years ago, that a great {of macroscopic species occurred on Earth and produced a fossil record that allows us to track the rise and fall of biodiversity. ●Since the Cambrian period, biodiversity has generally risen, but there have been some notable exceptions. ●Biodiversity collapsed dramatically during at least five periods because of mass extinctions around the globe. ●The five major mass extinctions receive most of the attention, but they are only one end of a spectrum of extinction events. ●Collectively, more species went extinct during smaller events that were less dramatic but more frequent. ●The best known of the five major extinction events, the one that saw the demise of the dinosaurs, is the Cretaceous-Tertiary extinction.{Starting about 280 million years ago, reptiles were the dominant large animals in terrestrial environments. ●In popular language this was the era “when dinosaurs {,” when a wide variety of reptile species occupying many ecological niches. ●{●Paleontologists label this point in Earth’s history as the end of the Cretaceous period and the beginning of the Tertiary period, often abbreviated as the K-T boundary. ●This time was also marked by changes in many other types of organisms. ●Overall, about 38 percent of the families of marine animals were lost, with percentages much higher in some groups Ammonoid mollusks went from being very diverse and abundant to being extinct. ●An extremely abundant set of planktonic marine animals called foraminifera largely disappeared, although they rebounded later. ●Among plants, the K-T boundary saw a sharp but brief rise in the abundance of primitive vascular plants such as ferns, club mosses, horsetails, and conifers and other gymnosperms. ●The number of flowering plantswas reduced at this time, but they then began to increase dramatically.What caused these changes? ●For many years scientists assumed that a cooling of the climate was responsible, with dinosaurs being particularly vulnerable because, like modern reptiles, they were ectothermic. ●It is now widely believed that at least some species of dinosaurs had a metabolic rate high enough for them to be endotherms. ●Nevertheless, climatic explanations for the K-T extinction are not really challenged by the ideas that dinosaurs may have been endothermic, because {{{{{{Explanations for the K-T extinction were revolutionized in 1980 when a group of physical scientists led by Luis Alvarez proposed that 65 million years ago Earth was stuck by a
 10-kilometer-wide meteorite traveling at 90,000 kilometers per hour. ●They believed that this impact {a thick cloud of dust that enveloped Earth, shutting out much of the incoming solar 
 radiation and reducing plant photosynthesis to very low levels. ●Short-term effects might have included huge tidal waves and {fires. ●In other words, a series of events arising from a single cataclysmic event caused the massive extinctions.●{Initially, the meteorite theory was based on a single line of evidence. ●{At locations around the globe, geologists had found an unusually high concentration of iridium in the layer of sedimentary rocks that was formed about 65 million years ago.●{Iridium is an element that is usually uncommon near Earth’s surface, but it is abundant in some meteorites.●{Therefore, Alvarez and his colleagues concluded that it was likely that the iridium in sedimentary rocks deposited at the K-T boundary had originated in a giant meteorite or asteroid. ●Most scientist came to accept the meteorite theory after evidence came to light that a circular formation, 180 kilometers in diameter and centered on the north coast of the Yucatan Peninsula, was created by a meteorite impact about 65 million years ago.        