# Predator-Prey Cycles
[Back to Index](https://github.com/windows10010/tpoExtractor/blog/master/README.md)

{How do predators affect populations of the prey animals? ●The answer is not as simple as might be thought. ●Moose reached Isle Royale in Lake Superior by crossing over winter ice and multiplied freely there in isolation without predators. ●When wolves later reached the island, naturalists widely assumed that the wolves would play a key role in controlling the moose population. ●Careful studies have demonstrated, however, that this is not the case. ●The wolves eat mostly old or diseased animals that would not survive long anyway. ●In general, the moose population is controlled by food availability, disease and other factors rather than by wolves.{{When experimental populations are set up under simple laboratory conditions, the predator often exterminates its pre and then becomes extinct itself, having nothing left to eat. ●However, if safe areas like those prey animals have in the wild are provided, the prey population drops to low level but not extinction. ●Low prey population levels then provide inadequate food for the predators, causing the predator population to decrease. ●When this occurs, the prey population can {. ●In this situation the predator and prey population may continue in this cyclical pattern for some time.{Population cycles are characteristic of small mammals, and they sometimes appear to be brought about by predators. ●Ecologists studying hare populations have found that the North American snow shoe hare follows a {ten-year cycle. ●Its numbers fall tenfold to thirty in a typical cycle, and a hundredfold change can occur. ●Two factors appear to be {the cycle: food plants and predators.{The preferred foods of snowshoe hares are willow and birch twigs. ●As hare density increases, the quantity of these twigs decreases, forcing the hares to feed on low-quality high-fiber food. ●Lower birth rates, low juvenile survivorship, and low growth rates follow, so there is a corresponding decline in hare abundance. ●Once the hare population has declined, it takes two to three year for the quantity of twigs to recover.{A key predator of the snowshoe hare is the Canada lynx. ●The Canada lynx shows a ten-year cycle of abundance that parallels the abundance cycle of hares. ●As hare numbers fall, so do lynx numbers, as their food supply depleted.{What causes the predator-prey oscillations? ●Do increasing number of hares lead to overharvesting of plants, which in turn results in reduced hare populations, or do increasing numbers of lynx lead to overharvesting hares? ●Field experiments carried out by Charles Krebs and coworkers in 1992 provide an answer. ●Krebs investigated experimental plots in Canada’s Yukon territory that contained hare populations. ●When food was added to those plotsand predators were excludedfrom an experimental area, hare numbers increased tenfold and stayed there—the cycle was lost. ●However, the cycle was retained if either of the factors was allowed to operate alone: if predators were excluded but food was not added, or if food was added in the presence of predators. ●Thus both factors can affect the cycle, which, in practice, seems to be generated by {of the two factors.{{{{Predators are an essential factor in maintaining communities that are rich and diverse in species. ●Without predators, the species that is the best competitor for food, shelter, 
nesting sites, and other environmental resources tends to dominate and exclude the species with which it competes. ●{This phenomenon is known as “competitor exclusion”. 
●{However, if the community contains a predator of the strongest competitor species, then the population of that competitor is controlled. ●{Thus even the less competitive species are able to survive.
●{For example, sea stars prey on a variety of bivalve mollusks and prevent these bivalves from monopolizing habitats on the sea floor. ●This opens up space for many other organisms. ●When sea stars are 
removed, species diversity falls sharply. ●Therefore, from the stand point of diversity, it is usually a mistake to eliminate a major predator from a community.        