# Rent A Mailbox Or Not
[Back to Index](https://github.com/windows10010/tpoExtractor/blob/master/README.md)

Listen to a conversation between a student and a campus mail center employee.Man:Sorry you had to wait.It's a busy time of year, lots of people mailing packages home.Girl:I bet. I'll have to come next week to do that.I'm moving out of my dorm and I'm sending some papers home.Man: Ok. We'll be here.What can I do for you today?Girl:Well, my roommate asked me to pick something up for her.I told her I was coming down here.She got this notice saying that there's a package to pick up.I guess it was too big to fit into our mailbox.Man:I am sorry. But I can only give packages to the person who they're addressed to.It's university policy.Girl:Really? Could you make an exception?She is my roommate.Man:I wish I could, but she'll have to come and get it herself.And be sure to tell her to have her student ID card on her.We will need to see identification.Oh, and she'll need that package notification too.Girl:Ok. I'll let her know.Also since I'm moving, I'll be able to receive my mail at my new apartment, so I don't really need my campus mailbox.Man:Oh, Ok. Although I should tell you that we do recommend that students use the campus mailbox service even if they are moving off campus.Girl: Really? Why?Man:Well, if any of your professors want to notify you of changes to class schedules or get in touch with you for any reason...Girl:My professors have my email address.Man:Yes, that's true.But remember things like university newsletters, flyers from university clubs, notices about special events, they're only distributed to campus mailboxes.None of that is mailed off campus.Girl:Well, I worked at the college newspaper, so I should be able to keep on top of what's going on.Plus there's a bulletin board outside the dining hall.Man:True. But you know if it's the campus mailbox fee, I might be able to offer you a less expensive rate for next year.We can do that in special circumstancesGirl:Thanks. But I mean I can afford the mailbox fee.It's just that between my off-campus address, my email account and the school newspaper, I don't think there will be a problem.Man:Ok. In that case, stop by the main desk on your way out of the building and pick up the form you'll need.And don't forget to include a forwarding mail address for anything that's addressed to your box from outside the university.