# Seventeenth-Century European Economic Growth
[Back to Index](https://github.com/windows10010/tpoExtractor/blog/master/README.md)

{In the late sixteenth century and into the seventeenth, Europe continued the growth that had lifted it out of the relatively less prosperous medieval period. ●Among the {factors behind this growth were increased agricultural productivity and an expansion of trade.{Populations cannot grow unless the rural economy can produce enough additional food to feed more people. ●During the sixteenth century, farmers brought more land into cultivation at the expense of forests and fens. ●Dutch land reclamation in the Netherlands in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries provides the most spectacular example of the expansion of farmland: the Dutch reclaimed more than 36.000 acres from 1590 to 1615 alone.{Much of the potential for European economic development lay in what at first glance would seem to have been only sleepy villages. ●Such villages, however, generally lay in regions of relatively advanced agricultural production, permitting not only the survival of peasants but also the accumulation of an agricultural surplus for investment. ●They had access to urban merchants, markets, and trade routes.{Increased agricultural production in turn facilitated rural industry, an intrinsic part of the expansion of industry. ●Woolens and textile manufacturers, in particular, utilized rural cottageproduction, which took advantage of cheap and plentiful rural labor. ●In the German states, the ravages of the Thirty Years' Warfurther moved textile production into the countryside. ●Members of poor peasant families spun or wove cloth and linens at home for scant remuneration in an attempt to supplement {family income.More extended trading networks also helped develop Europe's economy in this period. ●{. ●Population growth generated an expansion of small-scale manufacturing, particularly of handicrafts, textiles, and metal production in England, Flanders, parts of northern Italy, the southwestern German states, and parts of Spain. ●Only iron smelting and mining required marshaling a significant amount of capital.{{{The development of banking and other financial services contributed to the expansion of trade. ●By the middle of the sixteenth century, 
 financiers and traders commonly accepted bills of exchange in place of gold or silver for other goods. ●Bills of exchange, which had their origins in medieval Italy, 
 were promissory notesthat could be sold to third parties. ●In this way, they provided credit.●{At mid-century, 
 an Antwerp financier only slightly exaggerated when he claimed, “0ne can no more trade without bills of exchange than sail without water." ●{Merchants no longer had to carry gold and 
 silver over long, dangerous journeys.●{An Amsterdam merchant purchasing soap from a merchant in Marseille could go to an exchanger and pay the exchanger the equivalent sum in guilders, 
 the Dutch currency.●{The exchanger would then send a bill of exchange to a colleague in Marseille, authorizing the colleague to pay the Marseille merchant in the merchant's own currency 
 after the actual exchange of goods had taken place.{Bills of exchange contributed to the development of banks, as exchangers began to provide loans. ●Not until the eighteenth century, however, did such banks as the Bank of Amsterdam and the Bank of England begin to provide capital for business investment. ●Their principal function was to provide funds for the state.{The rapid expansion in international trade also benefitted from an infusion of capital, stemming largely from gold and silver brought by Spanish vessels from the Americas. ●This capital financed the production of goods, storage, trade, and even credit across Europe and overseas. ●Moreover an increased credit supply was generated by investments and loans by bankers and wealthy merchants to states and by joint-stock partnerships—{. ●Unlike short-term financial cooperation between investors for a single commercial undertaking, joint-stock companies provided permanent funding of capital by drawing on the investments of merchants and other investors who purchased shares in the company.