# Sumer and the First Cities of the Ancient Near East
[Back to Index](https://github.com/windows10010/tpoExtractor/blob/master/README.md)

{{The earliest of the city states of the ancient Near East appeared at the southern end of the Mesopotamian plain, the area between the Tigris and Euphrates rivers in what is now Iraq. ●It was here that the civilization known as Sumer emerged in its earliest form in the fifth millennium. ●At first sight, the plain did not appear to be a likely home for a civilization. ●There were few natural resources, no timber, stone, or metals. ●Rainfall was limited, and what water there was rushed across the plain in the annual flood of melted snow. ●As the plain fell only 20 meters in 500 kilometers, the beds of the rivers shifted constantly. ●It was this that made the organization of irrigation, particularly the building of canals to channel and preserve the water, essential. ●Once this was done and the silt carried down by the rivers was planted, the rewards were rich: four to five times what rain-fed earth would produce. ●It was these conditions that allowed an elite to emerge, probably as an organizing class, and to {itself through the control of surplus crops.{It is difficult to isolate the factors that led to the next development—the emergence of urban settlements. ●The earliest, that of Eridu, about 4500 B.C.E., and Uruk, a thousand years later, center on impressive temple complexes built of mud brick. ●In some way, the elite had associated themselves with the power of the gods. ●Uruk, for instance, had two patron gods—Anu, the god of the sky and {of all other gods, and Inanna, a goddess of love and war—and there were others, patrons of different cities. Human beings were at their mercy. ●The biblical story of the Flood may originate in Sumer. ●In the earliest version, the gods destroy the human race because its clamor had been so disturbing to them.{{{{It used to be believed that before 3000 B.C.E. the political and economic life of the cities was centered on their temples, but it now seems probable that the cities had secular rulers from earliest times. ●{Within the city lived administrators, craftspeople, and merchants.●{An increasingly sophisticated system of administration led in about 3300 B.C.E. to the appearance of writing. ●{The earliest script was based on logograms, with a symbol being used to express a whole word. ●{The logograms were incised on damp clay tablets with a stylus with a wedge shape at its end. ●●Two thousand logograms have been recorded from these early centuries of writing. ●A more economical approach was to use a sign to express not a whole word but a single syllable. ●●By 2300 B.C.E. the number of signs required had been reduced to 600, and the range of words that could be expressed had widened. ●Texts dealing with economic matters predominated, as they always had done; but at this point works of theology, literature, history, and law also appeared.{{Other innovations of the late fourth millennium include the wheel, probably developed first as a more efficient way of making pottery and then transferred to transport. ●A tablet {about 3000 B.C.E. provides the earliest known example from Sumer, a roofed boxlike sledge mounted on four solid wheels. ●{●Although copper and stone tools continued to be used, bronze was far more successful in creating sharp edges that could be used as anything from saws and scythes to weapons. ●The period from 3000 to 1000 B.C.E., when the use of bronze became {, is normally referred to as the Bronze Age.