# Domestic Exchange Program
[Back to Index](https://github.com/windows10010/tpoExtractor/blob/master/README.md)

Narrator: Listen to a conversation between a student and his ecology professor.Professor: How is it going? Tom.Student: Great! I was, oh. I wanted to tell you.You know the guest speaker you brought into class last week from the wildlife conservation center.Professor: Susan Brown. Yes. She is an old friend from graduate school.Student: Her talk on wildlife population modeling, well, it was very theoretical.Professor: It was certainly a change of pace from what we usually do.Student: Yeah, but I think I pretty much followed along.Plus, I like to see people get so passionate about ecology.Professor: Oh, right. Ecology is your major field of study, isn't it?Yes, Susan Brown's certainly a lively speaker.What a shame she didn't go into teaching.Student: Uh, anyway, what I, well, a while ago, I saw this blurb in the school paper about an exchange program that's part of the study abroad office.And today there was booth set up in the student center with a couple of students answering questions about the university's programs in foreign countries.Seeing the booth reminded me about the article in the paper and...Professor: Thinking about going abroad in the coming year?Student: Actually I just spent last summer studying in Tokyo.I think that satisfied my urge to travel.Professor: It must've been quite an experience.Student: Definitely. Taking all those language courses was really challenging.But what I wanted to find out at the booth was: it’s...um...a domestic exchange program, not studying abroad, but studying for a year somewhere else here in the United States.Professor: I don't think I have heard of that.Student: Well, neither had the guys in the booth.They didn't know what I was talking about.But when I talked to the supervisor in the study abroad office, it turns out we are part of a... a group of universities throughout the US that does a domestic exchange program.Professor: Huh! So you spent...what...a year at another university and your classes count toward your degree here?Student: Yeah, and I paid the same fees, tuition, room and board, that I pay here.So it doesn't really cost any extra.Professor: Interesting.Student: And you know I’ve lived here in southern Florida my whole life.And I’ve always been interested in Montana.The university in Montana, where I want to go, has classes that deal specifically with the ecology there.Like I am interested in the greater yellow stone ecosystem.It is such an important ecosystem being the source of three major rivers, and I want to learn more about it.Professor: Wow! This is a unique idea.The climate, the plants and wildlife, it's really different from here, probably the culture too in a way, and don't forget about all the outdoor activities you could do there, hiking, skiing, and the national parks.Student: That's true.Anyway I’ll have to get my application together in the next month or so, and I’ll need two letters of recommendation, one from a professor in my major department.Professor: Consider it done.Student: Thanks.
 